There you have it, sir.
That is my full report.
I see.
Your unauthorized intervention
was a serious violation
Squad 10 Captain
Shiba, that said,
your quick and decisive
action helped prevent
further casualties to
the squad and damage
to the world of the living.
Therefore,
(cane thuds)
I shall overlook
your contravention
of the rules this time.
Yes!
Uh, I mean, thank
you very much, sir.
Ha!
If you would ask me,
your most grave offense was
your failure to retrieve
the remains of this mystery
Hollow, as you call it.
Captain Shiba.
Your report is rather complete
as far as describing
this unusual Hollow,
but I have been wondering
if there might be something
else that you have left out.
Are you absolutely certain
that nothing else
worthy of note occurred
that you might have
forgotten to mention?
[Isshin] No, sir.
There's nothing else.
-(horn honking)
-(board clanking)
(Masaki sighs)
[Masaki Voiceover] I hope
that Soul Reaper made it back
to the Soul Society all right,
and that he didn't get in
trouble for helping me.
I wish I'd at least
gotten his name.
-(birds chirping)
-(gentle music)
(Isshin groans)
[Isshin Voiceover]
I guess the rumors
about there still being
some Quincies alive
are actually true.
It took guts for her
to step in and save me
and even more to tell
me that she's a Quincy,
knowing that I'm a Soul Reaper.
She's quite a girl, that one.
I didn't even really
thank her properly.
Maybe I should go back and
try to get to know her better.
I told you, Ryu's my
cousin. That's all.
Nothing's going on between us.
Oh, what's it like living
with the most
popular boy in town?
(Masaki laughs)
Stop, will ya? (gasps)
-Whoa, hey.
-Masaki?
(grunts) Oh, I'm so sorry.
Oh, don't give it
a second thought.
As long as you're
okay, I'm okay.
[Shiho] You all right?
[Kanan] Is that your
new way of meeting guys?
[Masaki] Would you
give it a rest?
-Please!
-(Shiho and Kanan laughing)
(Kisuke grunts)
("Scar" by Tatsuya Kitani)
(singing in Japanese)
-("Scar" by Tatsuya Kitani)
-(singing in Japanese)
[Masaki] I'm back!
Masaki, welcome-
-Masaki.
-Uh, y-yes?
Are the stories true?
I have been told that you
fought against a Hollow
the other night to
save a Soul Reaper.
-Huh?
-(Ryuken gasps)
N-No, I would never think
of even doing
anything of the sort.
You only make it worse by lying.
[Ryuken Voiceover] Katagiri!
[Izumi] How could
you do such a thing?
Have you no shame?
You've break the
rules of the Quincies
while in the care of
the Ishida Family?
(door slams)
Katagiri!
You told Mother
about what happened.
You did, didn't you?
We agreed there was
nothing to report!
I'm sorry, but it
had to be done.
But why?
Because Miss Masaki
sustained a grievous wound
from the Hollow's attack.
If she doesn't get proper
Quincy spiritual treatment
from your father and
mother immediately,
there's a very good chance
the future bloodline
of the Ishida could
become tainted forever!
Don't be absurd, Katagiri-
Absurd, Master Ryuken?
The bloodline means
everything to us.
Didn't you say so yourself?
That your marriage to
Miss Masaki was to secure
the future of the Quincies?
-(tense music)
-(Ryuken groans)
Damn it!
(footsteps tapping)
Now, what happened?
Tell me the truth.
Ah, well, uh-
Mother! That's enough.
Masaki isn't to blame for
what happened that night.
She was just trying to-
No, it's all right, Ryu.
Let me handle it.
-(Masaki gasps)
-(bag thuds)
-(Masaki thuds)
-What in the world?
Masaki!
What is it? Are you all right?
-(Masaki groaning)
-(dramatic music)
No!
Is that a Hollow's hole?
(gasps) Stop it, Ryuken. What
do you think you're doing?
[Ryuken] Where's Father?
Someone has already
gone to find him.
Just wait here till he comes.
(Ryuken grunts)
No, no. Wait, Ryuken!
Put that thing down!
You don't know what
danger you might be!
No! Come back, please!
Ryuken, come back!
(dramatic music continues)
[Ryuken Voiceover] What is this
that so resembles
a Hollow's hole?
And why is she in so much pain?
What is happening to Masaki?
I should have stopped her
from leaving that night.
I should have intervened
in that battle
and kept her from being hurt.
Why did I do nothing?
(Hollow roaring)
(tense music)
You're lucky I happen
to be in the area.
That thing almost gotcha.
It's you!
Hm? Have we met?
-(Masaki groans)
-(suspense music)
(gasps) Wait, let me
take a look at her.
Stay back.
Don't you dare touch
her, Soul Reaper.
You're the reason this
is happening to her!
Masaki broke the rules
of the Quincies to protect
you, a Soul Reaper.
And now, because of
that, she's dying!
Why did this have
to happen to her?
She did nothing wrong!
That's what's causing
this? The wound she got?
Is there any other explanation?
I'll never forgive you.
Okay, break it up.
This is no time to be arguing
so put your grudges on
hold and come with me.
And I'll show you the
choices you have to save her.
-(air whooshing)
-(gentle brooding music)
[Masaki Voiceover] I'm falling,
falling into a deep,
peaceful place.
It's quiet, dark, and lonely,
and yet I don't feel
frightened at all.
I have a strange feeling
that someone who needs me
is waiting for me down here.
Who is it?
(Hollow roars)
(water patters)
(rain pattering)
[Kisuke] I'm familiar
with those symptoms
she's exhibiting.
I've been researching them
for almost a hundred years.
A hundred?
Hey, you mind telling
us who you are?
[Kisuke] I'm Kisuke Urahara,
an exile from the Soul Society.
Kisuke Urahara? So that's you?
I don't give a damn
who or what you are.
Just make Masaki normal again!
I never said I could
make her normal again.
But I thought-
I'll give it to you straight.
Your lady friend?
She's never going back to
the way she used to be.
-(Ryuken gasps)
-(tense music)
She's undergone what's
known as Hollowfication.
Hollowfication occurs when
a Hollow's soul is infused
into another being soul,
destroying the boundaries
between the two.
It's an experimental
effort to translate a soul
to a higher level, creating
a whole new type of being.
The original purpose was to
create stronger Soul Reapers.
The problem is souls that
undergo Hollowfication
eventually become
mindless monsters
and ultimately self-destruct,
in a process known
as Soul Suicide.
The end result has
always been inevitable.
How could it be inevitable?
What do you mean?
Are you really saying there's
no way we can save her?
I can't return her
to what she once was
but I'm not saying I
can't save her life.
During my research over
the last hundred years,
I've discovered a means
of preventing the Soul
Suicide from happening.
It involves injecting
a counteractive agent
into the victim's soul to
offset the Hollowfication.
This creates a
balance between souls
so that one doesn't
overpower the other
thereby preventing
a Soul Suicide.
If, for example, we inject
a Hollowfied Soul Reaper
with a vaccine made
from a Quincy's light
arrow and a human soul,
the imbalance will be corrected,
and they'll remain
in whatever state they
were in when vaccinated.
However, Quincies have
no natural resistance
against Hollows so the vaccine
by itself is not enough.
I'm not following.
To put it another way,
in order to halt
the progression,
we need to hit it with
a counteractive force
but to save this
Quincy girl's life,
prevent her Hollowfication,
and allow her to retain
her existence as a human.
We're talking an extremely
powerful counteractive force.
Something enduring
enough to stay
at her side as
long as she lives,
strong enough to continually
suppress her Hollowfication.
Something like-
No, you're wrong!
-(Isshin gasps)
-It's madness.
There has got to
be some other way.
Well, look at you.
You've figured it out,
but I'm afraid it's
not your call to make.
The one who has to choose
-is you, Isshin Shiba.
-Huh?
Soul Reapers are the
opposites of Quincies.
Humans are the
opposites of Hollows.
Right now, Masaki is a
hybrid of Quincy and Hollow.
So in order to counteract that,
we need a hybrid of
Soul Reaper and human.
This Gigai is a special
creation of mine.
It was created
from a human soul.
It subsumes any
soul that enters it,
making it completely human.
You get it now, don't you?
If you use this Gigai,
you'll become a hybrid
of Soul Reaper and human,
which means you'll
become Masaki's opposite.
-(Masaki breathes heavily)
-That is if you choose
to go that way,
but before you do,
you should know there's nothing
but downsides in it for you.
For starters, I'll
have to bind your soul
to both Masaki's soul
and the Hollow within her
with a string of Reishi,
and this bond will have to last
for as long as Masaki lives.
No, longer.
It'll be passed down to all
her descendants forever.
And once you've
entered this Gigai,
not only will you be unable to
use your Soul Reaper powers,
but you won't even be
able to see Hollows.
And if you should
choose to get in,
it's more than likely
you'll never return
to being a Soul Reaper again.
[Ryuken Voiceover] It's true.
There's nothing but
downsides in it for him.
It's no choice at all.
He'll never do it.
Who in the right mind-
All right then, I'll do it.
(Ryuken gasps)
-[Kisuke] What?
-You heard me.
I said I'll do it. So
come on, let's do it.
Enough explanations. I get it.
I just have to quit
being a Soul Reaper,
and I can protect her, right?
Hell yeah, I'll do it.
And you're really okay with it?
Am I okay with it?
No. Of course, I'm not.
But how I feel about
it doesn't matter.
If I were to hold back and not
try to save her when I could,
my future self would
never forgive me.
(Ryuken gasps)
(Ryuken sighs)
[Kisuke] All right then.
-Let's begin the procedure.
-(suspense music)
(Hollow roaring)
(Masaki exclaims)
-(sword clangs)
-(air whooshing)
It's okay.
(Masaki gasps)
Don't worry, I've
come to protect you.
(Isshin chuckles)
Sorry, Hollow.
But now that I'm here,
you're never gonna
lay another finger
on this girl's soul, got it?
(Hollow roaring)
Getsuga Tensho!
(Hollow exploding)
(Masaki gasps and sighs)
(Kisuke laughs)
Looks like I've successfully
bound your souls together.
She'll be all right now.
What a relief. Thank goodness.
(Masaki laughs)
I remember you.
You're that Soul Reaper
I met before. Hi there.
It's funny. I don't
even know your name.
(Masaki laughs)
[Isshin] I'll tell
you when you wake up.
-(rain pattering)
-(gentle music)
(Ryuken gasps)
[Katagiri] Does this mean
you've left Miss Masaki
with the Soul Reaper then?
[Ryuken] Yes.
Go home and tell my mother
that her son has proven
himself incapable
of protecting the Quincies.
No, I won't.
[Ryuken] Do as I say.
[Katagiri] I'm sorry, but no,
I won't leave you
here by yourself.
-[Ryuken] Katagiri-
-Master Ryuken.
Have you forgotten?
My duty is to serve you,
and I've devoted my
entire life to it
and done so without regrets.
From the very first
day I met you,
my life has belonged
to you and only you.
That's why I beg you.
Please, don't be sad.
I can't bear to see you unhappy.
It's tearing my
heart into pieces.
When I see you
crying, it makes me-
Katagiri. That's enough.
Let's go home.
[Katagiri] As you
wish, Master Ryuken.
-A little later,
-(soft music)
as soon as she'd graduated
from high school,
Masaki left the Ishida Family.
Her soul was mixed
with the Hollows now.
So for the Quincies, it was
an understandable decision.
As for me, I made use of the
medical skills I'd picked up
at the academy to
open a small clinic.
I still had a ton
of things to learn,
but with Urahara's help, I
managed to get by, more or less.
Masaki went off to college,
but she still found
time to swing by
and tease me now and then.
I never told her the truth.
I told her I'd lost
my Soul Reaper powers
when I was banished from the
Soul Society for screwing up.
I don't think she ever
really bought it though.
I've always been a
terrible liar anyway
and her intuition
was incredibly sharp.
I don't know why
I even bothered.
My lying was probably a
pretty pointless exercise
for both of us.
I'm sure she knew all
along it wasn't the truth,
but it was like a
little game we played.
I'd lie to her and she'd
see through my lies
and forgive me for telling them.
We went to this movie once,
and there was this scene in it
where an old man told the
woman he'd spent his life with
that she was like the sun.
I don't remember anything
else about the movie
except that it made Masaki cry
and that one line has
always stayed with me.
To me, Masaki was like the sun.
She attracted everything,
forgave everything,
illuminated everything, and
sent everything spinning
in orbit around her.
Me?
I was more than happy
to be spun around.
Then you were born.
(rain pattering)
I think you already
know the rest of it.
Through Rukia, you gained
your Soul Reaper powers.
By training with Urahara,
you gained your Zanpakuto,
and over the course of your
many battles at the Soul Society
the Hollow in you was awakened.
The very fact that
it was released
meant that the spiritual
pressure I'd been exerting
all these years was no longer
capable of suppressing it.
And so the bond tying me
to my Gigai and that
Hollow was broken
and I regained my
Soul Reaper powers
for the first time in 20 years.
You probably don't need
me explaining things
that you've already
experienced yourself, do you?
But there's still one
thing you don't know
the whole story about, and
you need to know about it.
It was on June 17th, nine
years ago, this very day,
that your mother died.
That you know, but you
don't know the real reason
why your mother died that day.
("Saihate" by SennaRin)
(singing in Japanese)
(rain pattering)
[Isshin] Your mother.
She wasn't supposed
to die that day.
What do you mean "she wasn't?"
Let me explain.
Your mother, Masaki, may
have merged with a Hollow,
but she was originally
an Echt Quincy.
Her defensive ability,
the Blut Vene,
was exceptionally strong,
virtually impenetrable.
Not only should
she have been able
to easily defeat
Grand Fisher that day,
she could have done it
without getting a
single scratch on her.
(Masaki gasps)
But that's not what happened.
Why not?
Because on that day, she
lost her Quincy powers.
But how can that be?
What happened on that
day nine years ago?
Auswahlen.
It's a Quincy selection process
conducted by Yhwach himself.
(Ichigo gasps)
There's an old Quincy
tale I've heard that tells
about how their king
was sealed away.
According to the story,
the confined Quincy King regains
his pulse after 900 years
his mind after 90 years, and
his strength after 9 years.
Yhwach regained his strength
by robbing those Quincies he
deemed impure of their powers
and making those powers his own.
It was this selection process
that caused Uryu's frail
mother, Kanae Katagiri,
to fall ill and die,
and it's what caused your
mother to lose her powers
and her life in battle.
[Ichigo] What? How is
Yhwach able to do that?
Is it 'cause he's their king?
Who is he anyway?
[Isshin] Yhwach is the
Father of the Quincies.
The Quincies all sprang from him
and every Quincy has Yhwach's
blood running in their veins.
-(Ichigo gasps)
-The memories lying dormant
within your spiritual pressure
have awakened too soon.
It was never meant to
hold Quincies like us.
You don't know the first thing
about yourself, do you, boy?
Not even about your own mother.
Ichigo Kurosaki, I will
come back for you.
My son born in the dark.
I get it now.
Thank you, Dad.
[Isshin] Anytime, son.
(birds chirping)
Huh? Oh, Ichigo.
Here. You forgot this.
I figured you'd want it back.
(Ichigo grunts)
Thanks a lot, Miss Ikumi.
You too, Dad.
But right now, I've gotta go.
[Zangetsu] I believe the
world is full of danger.
I want to protect you from it
only because inside me is the
same impulse as that danger.
-("Saihate" by SennaRin)
-(singing in Japanese)